- [Instructor] For this tutorial, you'll need
to have installed and configured Vagrant.
Please refer to the introduction chapter tutorial
set up your environment on how to do just that.
In the terminal window,
let's start by setting up our Vagrant instance.
First we'll type
make directory ~/vagrang_amzn2.
Hit Enter.
We're going to cd into that directory.
Now we're going to initialize our Vagrant instance
by typing vagrant init gbailey/amzn2.
Hit Enter.
Now, let's start up the Vagrant instance.
This may take a few minutes the first time.
To make transferring our jar file over easier,
we're going to install Vagrant scp.
And we'll do that by typing
vagrant plugin install vagrant-scp.
While this is installing, let's go over to IntelliJ.
Ensure you have 02_03 begin loaded.
Once there, go ahead and build our jar file
inside of the IntelliJ terminal window
by typing gradlew clean build.
Now inside the IntelliJ terminal window,
we're going to copy our jar file
over to the same directory as our Vagrant file.
And we'll do this by typing copy cp build libs
tab over for the project name .jar
and we'll type the till /Vagrant, amazon2 and hit Enter.
With that done, let's switch back over
to our terminal window.
The Vagrant scp command must be run from the same directory
as the Vagrant file, as you can see here.
So let's run vagrant scp, make our newly copied
over file from this directory
and type springBootProdApplication.jar.
You'll notice this is minus the versioning information
and hit Enter.
This will copy over our newly built spring boot jar
to the Linux instance.
Let's clean up our screen by typing clear.
Now we want to start up vagrant we'll type vagrant ssh
and this will allow us to log to the Linux ssh instance.
Inside of vagrant, we need to first update
by running sudo yum update -y and hit Enter.
Next let's install a JDK.
To find a valid jdk,
we will type sudo yum search java | grep jdk.
We're going to use jdk version eight,
the x86.64, highlight it, copy it.
And then in our window type sudo yum install
and will paste in the rest.
Hit Enter.
Type y, hit Enter.
Okay.
Now we need to install the RPM build tools.
We'll do this by typing
sudo yum install -y rpmdev tools rpm-build tree.
With that done,
we're going to run rpmdev-set up tree.
This will set up our rpm file structure.
If we type ls- la now you'll see the rpm macros.
And if we type tree, we'll see a very neat visual display
of the files.
Now let's move our springBootProdApplication jar
over to the sources folder.
So we type move mv SpringBootApplication rpm
build is the directory sources and hit Enter.
Next, we need to create a service script
so that when our rpm is ready to be installed,
we can start and stop and see the status
with the standard system ctl commands.
We'll do this by typing vi rpm build sources
and the name of the script
will be SpringBootProdApplication.service.
Hit Enter.
I'll type I for insert and the first marker is unit
with a square bracket.
Hit Enter.
Next line will be description.
This will be our Spring Boot Prod Application.
I'll load after that will be the after command
network-online target.
Space down two we'll do another square bracket
and type service.
Underneath that, we'll use the type command followed
by simple and we'll specify our working directory.
This will be var opt spring-boot-prod
and this will be the directory that stores our application.
Next, we need an execute command
and this will be ExecStart=/usr/bin/java -jar -Dspring
profiles.active=prod.
And then the location will be /usr/local/spring-boot-prod.
And then the name
of our jar file SpringBootPodApplication.jar.
This of course will be where the jar file is stored.
And you can see that here.
I'm also specifying the Spring Boot profile to be activated.
Now later on, this script could be scripted
through a continuous integration pipeline
or possibly altered through a gradle build script.
Let's go ahead and type the next statement
which is Restart=on-abort.
The user is going to be spring-boot-prod
and the group will also be spring-boot-prod.
Hit space again for the square bracket.
And then the install command.
This statement will be WantedBy=multi-user.target.
With that, we'll press escape colon w, save it.
We're going to pause for a moment and look
at the file to make sure we haven't made any mistakes.
Okay. It looks good to me.
We're going to type colon Q for quit.
Okay, so now we need to work
on our spec file, which is crucial.
I would recommend that yoyu keep both your service
and your spec files with your source code
as a part of your builds and for ease of maintenance
instead of creating them from scratch each time.
To create the spec file,
we're first going to let the RPM dev new spec command
do this for us.
And then later we're going to replace it
with a copy from our lab files.
So we'll type rpmdev-newspec rpmbuild/SPECS
/spring-boot-prod-application.spec.
This command will create the file as a template.
We type tree,
we can now see all the various files that have
been created so far.
Next let's update this spec file
with the appropriate details.
And basically this is a templated spec file working with
but we are going to do something different.
This LinkedIn Learning Course is not so much
about the internal workings of RPMs of building RPMs
as it is about providing packaging alternatives
and recipes for your Spring Boot applications.
Because walking through all of the these details
would be extremely tedious
and take much longer than necessary,
I'm including the spec file in the lab files for us.
Let's go ahead and take a look
at the spec file in IntelliJ.
We're going to Command + A
and copy and go back to our terminal window.
And if I do a vi rpmbuild/SPECS/
we'll see the templated file.
I'm going to go ahead and delete this real quick.
And we will paste in copy.
I for insert, paste it in.
I'm going to escape colon w for quit.
So if you're ready, it's actually time
to build our RPM file.
To do this we'll type rpmbuild -ba
dash the directory, rpmbuild/SPECS/
spring-boot-prod-application.spec.
We'll hit Enter.
And if we've typed everything correctly
we should see an exit zero, which means we have no errors.
Awesome.
With that done, we are now ready to install our RPM.
We'll type sudo yum install rpmbuild
RPMS/noarch/SpringBookApplication-0.0.1-1.noarch.rpm
and we're going to give it a -y.
Okay. I'm excited.
Let's validate that it's running
because it should be started by default
once it's installed.
Now we can do this by typing.
First of all, let's clear our screen.
Let's type sudo systemctl status
SpringBootProdApplication.service,
and hit enter.
Oh, it seems to say that we're missing a Java file.
Let's check this real quick.
Java -version.
We have our Java, but looking at this error closely
it seems to say there's no such file mentioned here.
So let's go back to our Spring Boot application service.
We'll type vi rpmbuild/SOURCES/
/SpringBootProdApplication.sevice and hit Enter.
Okay. Do you see my error?
If you don't, there's no such as a VAT file.
Here is only a var directory.
We'll escape, colon W and Q right again and save.
We're going to have to go back and change in the specs
include a new iteration number.
Currently, this is at dash one.
We'll have to increase this by one.
So we'll go vi rpmbuild/SPECS, add into it, enter.
We go to the release, hit I for insert,
change this to 2, escape, colon w quit.
Now we should be ready to rebuild our RPM.
We'll type rpmbuild -ba rpmbuild/SPECS/ and our spec file
and hit enter.
Looks like I'm missing a D, let's correct that.
And run it again.
We have an exit zero, no errors.
Let's go ahead and install our RPM again.
So we'll type sudo yum install rpmbuild/RPMS/noarch
and SpringBootProdApplication-0.0.1-2,
tab over, -y and hit Enter.
Okay. Let's clear the screen.
I'm getting excited.
Let's validate that this is running
because it should be started by default
once it's installed.
We can do this by typing sudo systemctl status
SpringBootProdApplication.service.
Awesome.
Now what we wanted to see was an active running
and this is good.
Let's go ahead and type a curl command against this.
And before I do, I want to alert you
that it can take a few minutes for the application to come
up inside of this Vagrant window.
So if you're at this point
in the video and you run the curl command
it may come back saying it's not found, but it will
if given enough time.
We'll type curl -svo /dev/null http://localhost:9000
and hit Enter.
And as you can see,
we got the HTTP 200 response, which is what we wanted.
And this shows us that the application is up.
Now, let's test one of the actuator endpoints.
So we'll go back over here again,
we'll change it to 9001/actuator and hit Enter.
And we can see also that this is responding
with an HTTP 200 response.
Now, at this point, you could publish this RPM back
for use in production on your server,
just ensure however that the server location
and the Linux version you build the RPM for
is the same as the server
you'll be running it on.